Project Instructions
To complete this project, follow the instructions below. If you get stuck, ask a question on Slack or in the Treehouse Community.

 15 steps







”T-Shirt Info” section
Until a theme is selected from the “Design” menu, no color options appear in the “Color” drop down and the “Color” field reads “Please select a T-shirt theme”.

For the T-Shirt "Color" menu, after a user selects a theme, only display the color options that match the design selected in the "Design" menu.
If the user selects "Theme - JS Puns" then the color menu should only display "Cornflower Blue," "Dark Slate Grey," and "Gold."
If the user selects "Theme - I ♥ JS" then the color menu should only display "Tomato," "Steel Blue," and "Dim Grey."
When a new theme is selected from the "Design" menu, both the "Color" field and drop down menu is updated.

Project Warm Up: Select and option elements are commonly found on web forms, but can be confusing to work with. For some helpful practice, check out the project Warm Up Selects and Options.
”Register for Activities” section
Some events are at the same day and time as others. If the user selects a workshop, don't allow selection of a workshop at the same day and time -- you should disable the checkbox and visually indicate that the workshop in the competing time slot isn't available.
When a user unchecks an activity, make sure that competing activities (if there are any) are no longer disabled.
As a user selects activities, a running total should display below the list of checkboxes. For example, if the user selects "Main Conference", then Total: $200 should appear. If they add 1 workshop, the total should change to Total: $300.

Project Warm Up: This section of the project, working with checkboxes, is one of the trickier parts of the project. For some helpful practice, check out the project Warm Up Checkboxes.
"Payment Info" section
Display payment sections based on the payment option chosen in the select menu.
The "Credit Card" payment option should be selected by default. Display the #credit-card div, and hide the "PayPal" and "Bitcoin" information. Payment option in the select menu should match the payment option displayed on the page.
When a user selects the "PayPal" payment option, the PayPal information should display, and the credit card and “Bitcoin” information should be hidden.
When a user selects the "Bitcoin" payment option, the Bitcoin information should display, and the credit card and “PayPal” information should be hidden.
NOTE: The user should not be able to select the "Select Payment Method" option from the payment select menu, because the user should not be able to submit the form without a chosen payment option.

Form validation
If any of the following validation errors exist, prevent the user from submitting the form:
Name field can't be blank.
Email field must be a validly formatted e-mail address (you don't have to check that it's a real e-mail address, just that it's formatted like one: dave@teamtreehouse.com for example.
User must select at least one checkbox under the "Register for Activities" section of the form.
If the selected payment option is "Credit Card," make sure the user has supplied a Credit Card number, a Zip Code, and a 3 number CVV value before the form can be submitted.
Credit Card field should only accept a number between 13 and 16 digits.
The Zip Code field should accept a 5-digit number.
The CVV should only accept a number that is exactly 3 digits long.
NOTE: Don't rely on the built in HTML5 validation by adding the required attribute to your DOM elements. You need to actually create your own custom validation checks and error messages.

NOTE: Avoid using snippets or plugins for this project. To get the most out of the experience, you should be writing all of your own code for your own custom validation.

NOTE: Make sure your validation is only validating Credit Card info if Credit Card is the selected payment method.

Form validation messages
Provide some kind of indication when there’s a validation error. The field’s borders could turn red, for example, or even better for the user would be if a red text message appeared near the field.
The following fields should have some obvious form of an error indication:
Name field
Email field
Register for Activities checkboxes (at least one must be selected)
Credit Card number (Only if Credit Card payment method is selected)
Zip Code (Only if Credit Card payment method is selected)
CVV (Only if Credit Card payment method is selected)
Note: Error messages or indications should not be visible by default. They should only show upon submission, or after some user interaction.

Note: Avoid use alerts for your validation messages.

Note: If a user tries to submit an empty form, there should be an error indication or message displayed for the name field, the email field, the activity section, and the credit card fields if credit card is the selected payment method.

Form works without JavaScript - Progressive Enhancement
The user should still have access to all form fields and payment information if JS isn't working for whatever reason. For example, when the JS is removed from the project:
The “Other” text field under the "Job Role" section should be visible
All information for Bitcoin, PayPal or Credit Card payments should be visible.
CSS styles
It is not required, but you are encouraged to experiment with things like the color, background color, font, transitions, animations, box shadows and text shadows. So dive into the CSS file and see if you can make this project your own with a few adjustments to the styles. But the basic layout and positioning of elements should not be changed.
Add good code comments
Cross-Browser consistency:
Google Chrome has become the default development browser for most developers. With such a selection of browsers for users to choose from, it's a good idea to get in the habit of testing your projects in all modern browsers.
Review the "How you'll be graded" section.
Check out the "How you'll be graded" section, located above, next to the instructions tab, just below the project title. This section lists specifically what will be considered and checked when your project is being reviewed, and your project grade is being determined.
Quality Assurance and the Student Project Submission Checklist
Web development work bears the need for a high level of precision. We're talking about an industry that measures performance by the pixel, kilobyte, and millisecond. So it's very important to pay attention to the details and take the time to do your own thorough quality assurance testing on all your own projects. Before you submit your project for review, please do be sure to check off all of the items on the Student Project Submission Checklist. The checklist is designed to help make sure you’ve met the grading requirements, that your project is complete and ready to be submitted, and that you are developing good habits as a developer!
NOTE: Sometimes just getting started is the hardest part.

It's not uncommon to feel overwhelmed and confused when beginning to build a project. If you feel this way, try not to get too focused on seeing the project as a whole. Instead, just take it one small piece at a time. After familiarizing yourself with the instructions, start by downloading the source files, and creating a GitHub repo to store them. That is always a great place to start. Then just start tackling the project one small step at a time. Remember, your first attempt isn't likely to be perfect, and it doesn't have to be. As coders, we focus first on creating something that works. And then we refactor and optimize on later iterations.
NOTE: Seeking assistance

If you're feeling stuck or having trouble with this project
Reach out to the team on Slack.
Review material in the unit.
Practice your Google skills by finding different ways to ask the questions you have, paying close attention to the sort of results you get back depending on how your questions are worded.
NOTE: What you submit is what will get reviewed.

When you submit your project, a snapshot is taken of your repository, and that is what the reviewer will see. Consequently, any changes you make to your repo after you submit will not be seen by the reviewer. So before you submit, it's a smart idea to do a final check to make sure everything in your repo is exactly what you want to submit.